# ErrorHandler 

```cpp
#include <handler/ErrorHandler.h>

class ErrorHandler
```


The ErrorHandler class is an abstract class which is introduced to allow
error information to be processed during the execution of the program.
The interface defines two pure virtual methods `warning()` and
`fatal()`. `warning()` is a method which is called by an object when an
error has occured but the program can continue running after the error
has been logged; `fatal()` is invoked when the error is so serious that
the program must be terminated.
QUESTION: SHOULD THE DOMAIN/RECORDER CLASSES HAVE A shutdown() METHOD?



// Constructor






// Destructor






// Public Methods







// Protected Methods







Does nothing.




Does nothing.




Invoked by an object when an error has occurred. The program will
continue running after this method has been invoked. The first argument
is a pointer to a format string that specifies how subsequent (or
arguments accessed via the variable-length ellipses argument are
converted for output. As for `printf()`, the format string is composed
of ordinary characters (not %) which are copied to the log unmodified
and conversion specifications, which fetches the next argument from the
ellipses. Conversion specification is introduced by the % character and
followed by one of the following flags **d**, **f** and **s**, for
integers, doubles and strings respectively.

Invoked by an object when an error has occurred. The program will be
terminated by this method. The arguments are the same as for the
`record()` method.




Will print to the OPS_Stream *theStream* the error message, where *msg*
is the format string and *va_list* is the list created from the varying
number of arguments passed to the `warning()` or `fatal()` methods. It
is up to the calling object to both create `va_start()` and destroy
`va_end()` this list.
