# RCM 

```cpp
#include <graph/numberer/RCM.h>
```

class RCM: public GraphNumberer;\

MovableObject\
GraphNumberer\

\
RCM is a subclass of GraphNumberer which performs the numbering using
the reverse Cuthill-McKee numbering algorithm.

### Constructor

\
### Destructor

\
// Public Methods\

\

\

\
The integer *classTag* is passed to the MovableObject classes
constructor. The flag *GPS* is used to mark whether the
Gibbs-Poole-Stodlmyer algorithm is used to determine a starting vertex
when no starting vertex is given.

\
Invokes the destructor on any ID object created when `number()` is
invoked.

\
If the present ID used for the result is not of size equal to the number
of Vertices in *theGraph*, it deletes the old and constructs a new ID.
Starts by iterating through the Vertices of the graph setting the *tmp*
variable of each to $-1$. The Vertices are then numbered using a depth
first sort of the Graph, with each unmarked Vertex in the Graph at a
distance $d$ from starting Vertex being placed in the d'th level set. As
this is RCM, the Vertices in level set $n$ are assigned a higher number
than those in level set $n+1$ with the *tmp* variable of the starting
Vertex being assigned *numVertices* $-1$. The *tags* of the Vertices are
placed into the ID at location given by their *tmp* variable. These are
replaced with the *ref* variable of each Vertex, which is returned on
successful completion.

The Vertex chosen as the starting Vertex is the one whose tag is given
by *lastVertex*. If this is $-1$ or the Vertex corresponding to
*lastVertex* does not exist then another Vertex is chosen. If the *GPS*
flag in constructor is *false* the first Vertex from the Graphs
VertexIter is used; if *true* a RCM numbering using the first Vertex
from the VertexIter is performed and the Vertices in the last level set
are then used to create an ID *lastVertices* with which
*number(theGraph, lastVertices)* can be invoked to determine the
numbering.

This method is invoked to determine the best starting Vertex for a RCM
using a Vertex whose tag is in *lastVertices*. To do a RCM numbering is
performed using each of the Vertices in *startVertices* as the Vertex in
level set $0$. The Vertex which results in the numbering with the
smallest profile is chosen as the starting Vertex. The RCM algorithm
outlined above is then called with this starting Vertex.

```{.cpp}
int sendSelf(Channel &theChannel, FEM_ObjectBroker &theBroker);
```

Returns $0$.
*int recvSelf(Channel &theChannel, FEM_ObjectBroker &theBroker);* \
Returns $0$.
